Hello, my name is Kendra Smith and I am from Miami Oklahoma. I am the daughter of Novaleen (Hunsperger) Smith, and the granddaughter of Ken and Marilyn Hunsperger. I grew up in their farm store, Ken's Farm and Home, until I was 13. Most of you will probably remember me by the little twins that used to run around the store. 
I loved every moment of growing up in the store, and it taught me so much that I have carried on to my adult life today. I learned that hard work pays off, you should persevere through all trials in life, and to never give up. Being raised in the family business gave me a strong work ethic that has led to many of my successes today. 
My favorite memory of the store would be when the ice storm of 20?? came. My family and I lost electricity at our houses, so we packed up some clothes, blankets, and some mattresses and headed for the store. We all piled in upstairs to sleep a couple hours before we had customers banging on the glass doors at the front of the stores at 6am begging us to open so they could get supplies. My mom wrote down everyones purchases on paper, my grandma helped customers get a variety of winter wear and cooking supplies, my twin sister, Caitlin, and I were busy away showing everyone all the lanterns, wicks, and oil was that we had to offer, all whilst my brother, Kaleb, and my grandpa Ken showed people around with flashlights to purchase generators, ice melt, shovels, and chainsaws. Within about an hour and a half, my sister and I had sold out of every lantern we had in stock. 
We took pride in our grandpas store and were constantly into something trying to do our part. We loved to help in the boots and run to the back store room to get boots off the towering shelves to help our farming buddies. We also had a fun time when were were really small, probably 6 and younger, going around firing employees we felt were slacking off. If we saw them sitting down or leaning and just talking, Caitlin and I would both say "you're fired". Our favorite employees to fire, Leo Glenn and Cloyce Newkirk, were probably fired a hundred times. Luckily both men watched us grow up and were family friends so they did not scare off. 
But most of all, I cherish the memories I made it the store and the lessons I learned throughout my short time there. My family and my faith are the most important aspects of my life, and I am so thankful and blessed to have been able to learn these values while growing up right next to them. Even when times were tough, they were there teaching me how to be successful and loyal through their business.
Now, 21 years old and soon to be graduated with a Bachelors degree in Nutrition and Dietetics and an Associates degree in Christian Ministry from College of the Ozarks, I have been successful in my time at "Hard Work U" because of the things I learned from my family first hand throughout my years at Ken's Farma and Home. 

I want to personally thank the community for rising to the occasion and supporting my family not only in the 35 years of business, but in the 41 years they have lived here. 
