# History Behind the Scenes 
In an effort to provide the community with history dating back to the 1970’s on one of the cities most “prized” stores, I prepared a story not many know. Revealing information some family, past employees, and the community did not know. Here is the story of Ken’s Farm and Home.

Ken's Farm and Home once located in Miami, Oklahoma was owned and operated by Ken and Marilyn Hunsperger for 35 years. It served as a staple for the local farming community. The stored sold a variety of items ranging from clothing, housewares, hardware, Stihl products and other lawn service items, and farming equipment.

As a granddaghter of Ken and Marilyn, I have encountered and acquired this historical information first hand. I hope this information is beneficial to you to show the behind the scenes look at this important community business. I have witnessed first hand the happiness, as well as the sorrow the store brought to the town and citizens of Miami, Oklahoma. Thank you all for the love and support you have showed my family since 1976.  


## In the beginning 
Ken and Marilyn Hunsperger closed their gas station, "Ken's MFA" in Mansfield, Missouri in the beginning of 1976 before moving to Miami, Oklahoma. Ken's tire supplier, Raye Moore, introduced Ken to Ray Swisher and Loui Feldman in 1976 who, after meeting, decided to open a farm store and began searching for locations. The men reviewed several locations including West Plains, Missouri and Paragould, Arkansas. Back in the 1970s, in order to build a new farm store, other farm stores that were in close proximity had to approve the new store. The men tried to build in Monett, Mo but Springfield, Mo said no. They tried to build in Neosho, Mo but Carthage, Mo said no. So they crossed state lines into Oklahoma. Miami was right on the border between Kansas and Missouri and the store in Stillwater, Oklahoma gave the go ahead. So after reviewing the demographics of several areas, the men decided Miami, Oklahoma. Ken closed his gas station in 1976 and stayed during the week in the "Thunderbird" motel leaving his wife, Marilyn, and two teenage daughters, Kathleen and Novaleen, in Mansfield. Ken travelled back to Mansfield every weekend to be with his family, while spending the week constructing the building for his future farm store.  
The men contracted with Collins Construction to build the 20,000 square feet metal building. The building was located on 2220 E Steve Owens Boulevard on a piece of 6.4 acre land right next to the Turnpike Gate. The land the store was built on was originally a wheat field outside of city limits. After 7 months of construction, the battle began. Ken and partners began the search of electricians to wire the store. After searching, every company the men asked to wire the building said no due to threats from the electric company in town. The company, Booth and Booth Electric, threatened other electricians by saying "they were going to take away their license" if they wired the building. The family of Ken and Marilyn believe this to be because Booth and Booth Electric did not want the farm and home store in town due to competitive fear.  
Ken filed a lawsuit against the city in 1976. After 3 battles in court, the city finally decided that if the business got an electrical engineer they would inspect and approve the wiring. That is when the business hired electrical engineer Cooley from Stillwater, Oklahoma. After Cooley had begun installing the wiring, the city refused to come inspect the wiring being done. Ken and his partners gave Cooley the go ahead to finish the job and said they would fight in court later.  
Shortly after the business opened in November of 1977, the City of Miami came and removed the temporary construction pole the store had been generating electricity from because they did not do the inspection. Local farmers, Leo Glenn, Ray Schumake, and several others got together and brought Ken a generator to help provide electricity. The men said they would do whatever it took to help keep Ken's Farm and Home in business and to keep the business in town. When the city pulled the electric pole during business hours, customers were left stranded in the dark. Employees gathered flashlights to help guide customers throughout the store and to help cashiers see to write paper tickets. The business ran off a generator for 3 months. Every morning, Ken would go start up the old 1960 John Deere tractor and the generator to help keep his new business afloat. No matter what Ken, his business partners, or his family faced, they were going to fight. During this battle, REC (Rural Electric Company) offered to extend their power across the road from the Turnpike to give the store power if the city refused again to give them electricity. The City of Miami did not approve of this plan and went forward in inspecting the wiring the men had Cooley do.  The city engineer came in and said "he had to find at least one thing wrong" with the wiring. After the city inspector was in the building for 6 hours, only with himself and Cooley, he talked to Cooley about any and everything he used. The one thing wrong was Cooley used 20 amp fuses in the breaker box and 15 amp fuses in the lights. There were 109 lights in the building. The city engineer, Anderson, spent the 6 hours searching the building top to bottom, while doing so, he revealed that he only had 2 more years left with the city before he could retire. He said if he did not find at least one thing wrong, the city would find an excuse to fire him, and he would lose his retirement.  After finding his one thing, he told Ken to fix the problem. So Ken did. After Ken fixed the problem, the city finally gave the business electricity.  

## During operation 
Sales, profits, major successes, major fails, etc. Major brands (Karen Hart, Double H, Carhartt, Wrangler, Stihl, Ace) 

## Closing the Doors 
On November 17th of 2008, Ken had his first open heart surgery to replace a leaking mitral valve that was causing a series of problems. Ken's cardiac surgeon, Dr. Vetsch from Freeman Hosptial in Joplin, Mo. said he almost lost Ken on the operating table while performing the leaking valve. After the surgery, it took Ken months to regain strength from the surgery. Despite Dr. Vetsch's best efforts, the leaking valve was only the beginning of Ken's heart journey. In February 2010, Ken was admitted into Barnes Jewish Hospital in Saint Louis, Mo where Dr. Gregory Ewald placed a combination Pacemaker Difibulator. During the couple years battling Ken's cardiac problems, the family decided, despite best efforts, it was in the best interest to close the family business. This was a very hard decision for the family, for they hated to see such hard work come to a close. But they feared that something were to happen to Ken and they would not know all the ins and outs that Ken did and the business would be too much for the small family to take on. So in 2011, after 35 years of business, the doors of Ken's Farm and Home would be opening and closing one last time. The business ran sales to try and rid much of the inventory so the auction would be less chaotic. After running the sale for approximately 2 weeks, the business had Clapp Auction auction off the remaining of the inventory. Boxes were packed and sold as units. The auction was devasting for the family to watch. Items in the auction were being sold for litte to nothing, and they watched all their hard work, time, effort, and business finance crumble to the ground. Though it was hard, it was great for the community to receive quality products at such great prices.  
After the auction, Ken put his building and land up for sale. He first listed the land and its building with Harrell Post at United Country Real Estate: Post Properties.  
Ken's health continued to improve gradually, but at the age of 74, his physical health was reaching a peak. Ken loved his business and wore his Ken's Farm and Home hat everywhere he went. Customers would stop by when they would see Ken and his family dining out and ask "so when are you opening the store back up? I really miss it" and comment things like "you never know what you have until its gone. We really need a store like yours around here. You just can't find those products you had close by. You always had everything!". Ken and his family would chuckle and reminsice on all the memories they had in the store. Ken and his family wished too that the store never had to close, but they knew it was in their best interest. Each time Ken and his wife Marilyn heard comments, they would merely nod their head and say "yeah I wish" and politely say "thank you".  
## Currently 
The land and the building was first on the market with Country Real Estate: Post Properties and Harrell Post. After 2 years, Ken switched to NEO Reality with David Davis. David Davis had it for about 1.5 years before Ken switched back to Harrell Post. Harrell had it another 2 years, and Ken switched back to David Davis who has it listed on the market still today. 

The 30,000 square feet metal building as well as the 6.4 acre land, right next to the Turnpike Gate was orignally listed 2.8 million dollars. Ken then dropped the price to 2 million. Then 1.8 million. It is now listed at 1.5 million. 

A freight company set out to buy the store and it's land, but the partners would not follow through. There were 2 other places interested in the land and the building, but unfortunately none were able to follow through. 

Casey's, Kum & Go, TH Rogers, Woodshed, and several others have been contacted regarding the listing, but none were able to venture out. 

The store is currently being rented for shelving storage by the local pharmacy, Osborn Drugs. 
